Hello friends
In this video let us have an introduction to algorithms
so what
is an algorithm ? an algorithm is a well defined computational procedure
that takes a set of values as inputs and transforms
them into the desired output
For example if we have some numbers as the input
and we are expecting these numbers in sorted order as
output so that is all cool
And to achieve this goal we need to follow some
set of procedures and this procedure is called an algorithm
and algorithm may be correct and it may also be
incorrect
And algorithm is said to be correct if it produces
the desired output on every input instance that is in this
case
If we give any set of numbers it will be
sorted correctly
And if it produces un desired output on any input
instance it is set to be an incorrect algorithm
so the algorithm should produce the desired output or every
input
Instance
We can write the algorithm in simple English as step
by step instructions for using a computer programme and also
they can be more than one algorithm to solve the
same problem
But what is important here is how efficiently it solves
the problem
For example here we have an algorithm which takes one
year time and utilises 100 GB
of memory
And there is another algorithm which takes one month time
and utilises one GB of memory
And there is another algorithm which takes one day time
and utilising one MB of memory and another one
takes one second time and utilises 100 kb of memory
Although all four algorithms here produced the desired output the
last one Gives and efficient solution in terms of time
and memory usage
So in this case the fourth one is set to
be an efficient algorithm
This example will give you a better understanding of why
efficiency in the algorithm is very important
So in a day today life we are used Google
search engine and it takes our query as input and
it's efficient algorithm producers useful links as an output in
just milliseconds
But imagine if the searching algorithm is inefficient
But what if the searching algorithm is inefficient here Then
it will utilise a lot of memory to eat search
query which caused a lot to Google and you will
also get the search result in a very very long
time
So will you used this kind of an application Definitely
not right
So it is important to write the correct algorithm but
it is even more important to write it more efficiently
So hope you understood the need for algorithms and why
it should be efficient
So thats all
And in the next video we will learn how to
write and analysed algorithms